---
title:  "Thoughts and Internal Combustion Engine"
date: 2019-01-15 20:00
---

The first thought that came to my mind after I decided to do this year's challenge was "what should I write about?", there are several things that I feel comfortable with like: been working for some time now, more than 10 years in the programming world, doing some sports and I am interested in music so far so good, but is this all? I mean having hobbies is good, but I feel like I am missing the old days of learning (not saying I miss school though). Growing up in the 90s has a good side, I rememember my father telling me that we live in a different time, that currently (my generation) can't fix a problem, we are used to have the information delivered easily and the practical experience is gone. The thing is although he had a point in there, I don't know how to fix a general problem like plumbing or electrical problem) I think what my generation has is the ability of finding an answer based on a lot of information that floats around us, picking the right thing is a new skill that is required by the future generations. I got out of hand in here, my point is that I want to kind of prove that and I want to do it by disecting a problem I don't know anything about - how does the car engine work? Sure you/me have heard that it has cylinders and it burns gas, it needs the oil changed from time to time, probably if you had problems with it like I did with my 1997 Honda Civic you know something about the head gasket and it's problems, but do you/me actually know how the whole thing is working? Nope. So I decided to dive deep in the whole system and probably in that process understand more about cars in general. So the current/first one is about Internal Combustion Engine.

I thought if I need to bring up the history side as I found that boring but just
